Everything so far is rendered in php. Now we are going to render some part
in browser this is basically done by using javascript.

javascript 
javascript was invented for browser. it is use to add interactivity 
dynamically.

We have to explitly say the changes.

alert pauses the execution of entire code in browser. 

3 basic way to add javascript

inline
it is like adding js in between the html with script tag

as part of the html tag
it is like adding onclick in between the anchor tag
return false it is used for stoping the anchor tag to follow the href
and only executes the function associated with onclick

from a external file
By using javascript, and adding file with src attribute.


Core Language ffetures

typeof operator is used to check the type of any variable

for (ball in balls) - for loop like python


Debugging

alert id used to stop the execution of the browser

window.console is used to check if console is active



oop in javascript

funcion keyword itself is executeable, it has a return value. 

First class function 


this keyword function points to the object of current class


Jquery basic 

when th response comes from the server the response is parsed, some js code
is executed so jquery has some libraries that helps the js easier to use.

jquery defines a global object with $ sign. here $ is a function object.

.document is the pre defined object model in js in all the browser.

ready methos is a parameter. the first class functions return code.

query doesn't execute the function until the document is loaded fully until
to be viewed.

it is like registering an event.


if you want to make modification to any tml tag id should be refrenced 
by # in the jquery.


now jquery will talk to the server 



jquery might talk to database and server through this functionality the 
pop up function can be added to our web page.




JSON 


asynchronous html http

format of the data is JSON

AJAX

wire format - known syntax to all the Language

serializing - encode

deserialize - decode


json and jquery - associative objects


console.dir(objectName) this will print the data in console

json_encode(parameter)  -parameter can be associative array, linear array,
keyvalue array

it will parse it in javascript.

pretty print will indent the minimized code  in json

$.getJSON(url, response)  it will make a get request to receive a json file,  
response is the actual response from url, so it will deserialize it, then pass the
data in the code

